So before we go ahead
and practice creating an auto scaling group,
you need to take your first two instances,
and we're actually going to terminate them.
Okay, so now this is done,
we can go ahead and create an auto scaling group.
For this, on the bottom left,
click on Auto Scaling Groups,
and we will create an auto scaling group.
So I'll call this one DemoASG.
And we need to create a launch template.
So currently we have none.
So let's create a launch template.
And I will call this one DemoLaunchTemplate.
And this template is being used to tell to the ASG
how to create EC2 instances within it.
So this will look very, very similar
to what we have when we create EC2 instances.
As you can see here, I can choose,
for example, a quick start Amazon Linux,
for getting Amazon Linux 2,
as the base of my EC2 instance.
Then we have an instance type that we can include,
for example, t2.micro.
For key pair, we will not include it in the launch templates
or we can just say that, no, we don't need one.
So this is good enough.
For subnets, so we'll not include this
in the launch templates.
For security group,
we can select a security group that's already existing,
for example, my launch-wizard-1.
Under Advanced Network Configuration,
we won't do anything.
For EBS volumes for storage,
we don't need to do anything.
And then for Advanced Details,
we want these instances to start with some user data.
And so we scroll all the way down,
and here we copy and paste the user data.
Okay, so let's create this launch template.
As you can see, thanks to this launch template,
we launch EC2 instances just like before.
So let's refresh this,
and then click on the DemoLaunchTemplate of Version 1.
So here it describes what is going to happen,
the type of instance we're going to have,
the security groups and so on.
So let's click on Next.
Next we have instance type requirements.
So as we can see here,
I have a t2.micro directly coming from my launch template.
But we could override this,
but we're not going to do it.
Then for network, which is a VPC.
And then within the VPC,
we choose the different availability zones
where we may want to launch our EC2 instances.
So I selected three.
And then I will just use balanced best efforts
as an AZ distribution.
This is just a default option.
To come next,
next, we need to choose about load balancing.
So we want to attach our ASG to an existing load balancer.
And so therefore you're going to click
on the Attach to an Existing Load Balancer,
and then you will choose your demo-tg-alb
that you've created from before
to automatically attach these new EC2 instances
to the target group that was created from before.
We don't touch anything about VPC Lattice,
we don't touch anything about zonal shift.
And for the health checks,
we have the EC2 health checks always enabled.
But we're also going to turn on the ELB health checks,
the Elastic Load Balancing health checks
so that if my load balancer detects
that my EC2 instances are unhealthy,
it will automatically terminate them.
All right, let's click on Next.
Next we have group size.
So here we can define the desired capacity
as well as the minimum capacity and the maximum capacity.
So we'll choose a desired capacity of 2.
And then the min is 1,
and the max has been automatically adjusted to 2.
But we can also set it as 4.
Next, we have the ability to have automatic scaling.
For now, I will not set up one,
but we'll look into this later on.
And then we have instance maintenance policy.
So right now I don't wanna change anything
to keep it simple.
So we'll choose No Policy.
For Additional Capacity Setting,
we'll just choose the default right now
and not worry about it.
And then we will not touch anything
around these additional settings.
So we don't need any notification,
and then we don't need any tags.
And then we can review all the options.
And when we're happy,
we just click on Create Auto Scaling Group
to get it created.
So now our auto scaling group is being created,
and as you can see, the state is updating capacity
because we have zero instances in our ASG.
But we want two.
So I can click on it to get a bit more details.
So let's go under Activity.
And in here we have two activity history.
That is, we are launching two new EC2 instances
because, well, the desired capacity went from zero to two.
And so if we have a look under the Instance Management tab,
as you can see now,
two EC2 instances are in the pending states.
So if I go under EC2
and look at my EC2 instances,
in that UI, we also see
that two instances are running,
and these have been created by my auto scaling group.
So the benefit is that now they are fully managed
by my auto scaling group.
And let's go see, for example, in my target group as well.
So if I go to my target group on the left-hand side
and look at my demo-tg-alb right here.
Scroll down.
As you can see, now we have two total targets,
and these are the targets
created by our auto scaling group.
So, again, thanks to the integration that we've defined
between the auto scaling group and the load balancer,
we are able to have automatically these new EC2 instances
registered as targets in our target group.
So currently they're unhealthy.
This is because the instance hasn't started all the way yet.
So let's wait a little bit until they become healthy.
So to speed up the check from unhealthy to healthy,
you can go under Health Checks of your target group.
And here we can edit the settings.
And under Advanced Settings,
we can say that the healthy threshold is going to be 2
and the interval is going to be five seconds.
This is going to make the thing much quicker.
So of course the timeout needs to be two seconds,
something less than the interval itself.
So let's save our changes.
And now the health check settings have changed.
Let's see, if I go back into my targets and refresh,
now both my instances are healthy.
We just made the health check happen faster and more often.
So now both my instances are healthy.
And so therefore if I go under my load balancer right here
and I look at the DNS name and open it in a new tab,
I get a hello world from both my instances.
And this is cool because these two instances
were created by the auto scaling group.
So because now we have an auto scaling group,
we can actually do some cool stuff.
So if we take one of these instances, for example,
and we can, for example, terminate it.
So I'm going to click on it.
And under the instance itself,
I will do Instance State and then Terminate Instance.
Now it's been successfully terminated.
So what's going to happen
is that because this instance
is being shutting down and terminated,
well, my auto scaling group
is going to detect that, guess what?
One of these instance is not in service anymore.
It's being terminated.
And so, therefore, because we have an auto scaling group
with a desired capacity of two instances,
automatically a new instance should appear.
So let's observe this behavior
by having here the activity history.
And as you can see,
in progress was terminating EC2 instance.
And so an instance was taken out of service
because, well, it's been terminated.
And then we have a new activity
saying, "Hey, an instance was launched
"in response to an unhealthy instance
"needing to be replaced."
So it's very cool because the auto scaling group
can automatically detect unhealthy instances
and create new one for replacement.
So if we go here now,
there's one instance in pending state
which is being started,
one instance being terminated,
and one instance in service.
And this is the whole power of auto scaling groups.
Of course we can go to the next level,
but for now we know enough,
which is around automatic scaling,
to actually define scaling policies
to automatically increase or decrease
the desired capacity over time
based on our load and so on.
But here you've seen the basics
and the major features of auto scaling groups,
and you could play around
by editing the desired capacity yourself
to set it to 1, for example,
to terminate instances and only keep one of them
or to set it to 4
and see the auto scaling group create multiple instances
that will be registered with our load balancer,
and so therefore the traffic
is going to be distributed between four instances.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.